INGREDIENTS

Roasted veggies

½ medium head of cauliflower, cut into ½-inch chunks
1 large sweet potato, peeled and cut into ½-inch cubes (about 2 cups)
2 red bell peppers, cut into 1″ squares
1 medium yellow onion, sliced into wedges about ½″ wide
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided
1 teaspoon ground cumin, divided
Salt
Freshly ground black pepper
Remaining ingredients

2 ¼ cups (18 ounces) red salsa, either homemade or jarred*
½ cup chopped fresh cilantro, plus extra for garnish
9 to 10 corn tortillas**, halved
1 can (15 ounces) black beans, rinsed and drained, or 1 ½ cups cooked black beans
2 big handfuls (about 2 ounces) baby spinach leaves
2 cups shredded Monterey Jack cheese
INSTRUCTIONS

To roast the veggies (this can be done up to 2 days in advance): Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit with racks in the middle and upper third of the oven. Line two large, rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper to prevent the vegetables from sticking.
On one pan, combine the cauliflower and sweet potato. On the other pan, combine the bell peppers and onion. Drizzle half of the olive oil over one pan, and the other half over the other pan. Same with the cumin.
Sprinkle both pans lightly with salt and pepper, then toss each one until the vegetables are lightly coated in oil and spices, adding another light drizzle of olive oil if necessary. Arrange the vegetables in an even layer across each pan. Bake until the vegetables are tender and caramelized on the edges, about 30 to 35 minutes, tossing the veggies and swapping the pans halfway.
When you’re ready to assemble, reduce the oven heat to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and lightly grease a 9″ square baker. Stir the cilantro into the salsa.
To assemble, spread ½ cup salsa evenly over the bottom of the baking pan. Add a single layer of halved tortilla pieces, arranging them so they completely cover the salsa.
Top with ½ of the beans, ⅓ of the vegetables, ½ of the of spinach, and ⅓ of the cheese.
Make a second layer of tortillas (I pressed down on the mixture a little here to make room for the next layers). Top with ½ of the remaining salsa, all of the remaining beans, ½ of the remaining vegetables, all of the remaining spinach, and ½ of the remaining cheese.
Make a third layer of tortillas (again, I pressed down to make more room). Top with the remaining salsa, vegetables, and cheese.
Cover the pan with parchment paper (I tent mine in the middle and wrap the edges around the handles) or aluminum foil. Bake for 20 minutes, then remove the parchment paper or aluminum foil and bake for 10 more minutes, or until heated through.
Let the casserole cool for 10 minutes, to give it time to set and reach a palatable temperature. Before serving, sprinkle the top lightly with additional chopped cilantro.
